Meeting Minutes of 23 February 2023
===

###### tags: `Meetup`

### info

:date: **Date:** 23 February 2023

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

<!-- This list will copied over from the meeting tool -->
- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Jan Romann
- Phillip Blum
- Alessandra Marconi
- Jan Romann
- Luca Roffia
- Jiye Park
- Michael Koster
- Sandro Kock
- Tatiana Mangels
- Coleman Brumley
- Geun-Hyung-Kim
- Felix Paulini
- Andreas Hennig
- Julien Holtzer
- Lorenzo Gigli
- Luca Barbato

:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Cristiano Aguzzi

:computer: **Slides:**

- [Introduction](../../Presentations/2023/2023-02-WoTCG-Meetup4-AguzziKorkan.pdf)
- [Speaker](../../Presentations/2023/2023-02-WoTCG-Meetup4-Romann.pdf)

### :scroll: Agenda

- Welcome
- News from the CG
- NAMIB Project and security delegation
  - Q&A Session
- Discussion on Security and WoT
- Next Meetup
- Wrap up

## :book: Minutes

### Welcome

Ege: Hello everyone, welcome to our fourth meetup

Ege: Jan is going to present his finding on security

*Ege shows the agenda*
Ege: remember that by participating to this event you accepted the CLA

Ege: make sure to watch our repository for announcements

Ege: the meeting are minuted

Ege: you can use chat for questions or any other comunication

### News from the CG

Ege: Next month we are going to held an internal meeting about chat tools.

Ege: which tool do you use more often?

Ege: we are going to peek one in the next meeting

Ege: We didn't record the meetings but from now on we are going to ask to the speakers. Is it fine Jan?

Jan: Yes

Ege: Ok, if you need the video you can send an email and we will send it to you

*Ege presents Jan's background*

Ege: Jan the floor is yours

### Presentation

Jan: Today I want to present how to delegate device authorization in the context of web of things I was part of the [NAMIB project](https://namib.me/) at my university the project lasted for about two years

Jan: 18/12 participats
... we defined a scenario
... guest checkins and wants to access IoT devices, hotels want to limit permissions by: space time and scope. Solutions should be interoperable to enable seamless interactions.

Jan: Using open starndards is important

Jan: different working areas.

Jan: Goals: interoperable solutions for authorized access to IoT and how to improve specifications.

Jan: Ace-OAuth has been recently became an RFC

Jan: you can think it as OAuth2.0 for constraint devices

Jan: access token are serilized in CBOR

*Jan shows general protocol flow of ACE-OAuth*

Jan: CoAP is used for the interactions between different components, it is a web transfer protocol compatibile with HTTP

Jan: We used also OPAQUE used for registering and login guests, servers never learns the passwords used.

*Jan shows a part of their software architecture*

Jan: core is the guest

Jan: with the protocol flow the guest can obtain a scoped token for accessing the device

Jan: we developed two kinds of libraries. The first ones are implemented in Rust, the second ones are Dart-based. There are similirarities.

Jan: we implemented the authorization server using rust. it supports check-ins with the OPAQUE. Web interface is WIP

Jan: individual IoT devices were built again using Rust. We could use Riot but rust support there was limited. Now it is better. We used wot-td crate to generate TDs.

Jan: Note that currently some crates require allocator and they can't be used in bare metal enviroments. There is still a lot to be done to make the libraries in real constrained devices.

Jan: we created a client using Dart. it has a strong type system. Using Dart had some drawbacks. Mainly the lack of wot based libraries that we need to build ourselves. You can find our dart_wot implementation on github. It is just a consumer and discoverer

Jan: it uses a different approach than node-wot when it comes to security bootstrapping.

*Jan shows a code example*

Jan: security provider support differnt security schemes

Jan: Our implementation has some limitations, in paritcular it is not really ready to be used in constraint devices and the libraries are missing some features. ACE-OAuth is not yet finished

Jan: sadly I don't have demo ready, but I can show it in the future. ACE-Oauth needs future improvements but we proved that it can be already used in the context of WoT

Jan: you can find us on [Github](https://github.com/namib-project)

### Q&A Session

Ege: thank you!

Philipp: Would caching on NOR flash etc. help with the (de)seralization speed?

Jan: turning data to json on the constraint device it is heavy. In some usecase you can pre-compile it but it would be still nice to manipulate it freely.

Ege: how the process works?

Jan: the QR contains the discovery URL, the user take it to discover the device and interact with it.

Ege: how the hotel personal should manage the devices?

Jan: Yes they have to muanally interact with the authorization server

Jiye: how much time user data is persistent in the database ?

Jan: Good question, the actuall permission to the devices is kept in the authorization server, but it also stored in the token.

Ege: if a download the app can I use it in any hotel? would it need additional configuartion.

Jan: the trust is established with the manual checkin and then the client create the relationship. Of course you need to trust the implementation the flow is secure. However, the trust establishment is still a little bit specific cause the use of OPAQUE with ACE-OAuth is not standardized. However, another project member is currently writing a paper about this topic.

### Discussion on Security

Ege: how do you see muds work with Web of Things

Andreas: didn't have many expirice with it, but since Google got his hands on it I had to study it. Google is pushing for it.

Ege: Is it going to be a trend?

Andreas: the technology is necessary. But MUDs feel too low level. I am monitoring the part of Software Inventory.

Jan: I didn't work that extensivly with MUDs over the course of the last year, but I can see that it could be too low level.

Ege: more generic question. We tackled a little bit of the onboardin process, what do people think about this process? should it be standardized?

Cris: probably is relevant for WoT applications.

Ege: is there anything left out in the specification reguarding security? How this is separated by the protocol? Can psk be used in MQTT?

Jan: in my implementation this client security provider will be called for each form and check if they support that protocol.

Jan: I have few points in the presentation. I noticed that ace might have different scopes but I cannot model different data schemas.

Ege: we had similar problem. The href would be the same.

Cris: it is kind of view for the same

Luca: yet another item that could be solved using a data mapper. I'd like to use it also for uri variables.

Ege: there is also some overlaps with huge static payloads.

Michael Koster: General issue of abstract

Ege: AoB?

Luca: the whole thing is interesting, and thanks for using our crate.

Jan: I have a final technical point.

*Jan shows a slide about creation hint*

Ege: is it similar to digest?

Jan: similar but there is more redandancy here.

Ege: I don't have a nice solution

Luca: The whole TD was CoAP based?

Jan: Yes

Luca: but then you can get the nonce when you get it.

Ege: but you were using a TDD for retrieving it?

Jan: yes but CORE_RD it has only links to TDs

Ege: than what Luca suggested might work

### Next Meetup

Ege: Next up we have two events. One about the new charter (i.e. what it will happen in the next years). Then we have SICK AG that will show their production ready solution. Please join us if you want to know more!

Ege: use our repository to get all the latest news.

### Wrap up

## :ballot_box_with_check: Resolutions

None

## :exclamation: Action Items

None

## :envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks

None
