Meeting Minutes of 13 September 2022
===

###### tags: `TPAC`

:clapper: **Meeting Title:** TPAC 2022
:date: **Date:** 13 September 2022

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Alexander Power
- Ben Francis
- Bradley Needham
- Christian Glomb
- Daniel Dersen
- Daniel LaLiberte
- Ding Wei
- Fady Salama
- GeunHyung Kim 
- Herre
- Hiroshi Ota
- Jan Romann
- Jeff Waters
- Kang Seukyoon
- Kaz Ashimura
- Kunihiko Toumura
- Michael McCool
- Shinjiro Urata
- Alicia

:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Cristiano Aguzzi

### :scroll: Agenda

- Introduction to the WoT CG
- Explaining the current roles of WG, IG and CG.
- Discussion on how to work together
- Next CG events
- Wrap-up and conclusion

## :book: Minutes


### Logistics

*Ege Korkan:* in the minutes we summarize people opinion and make those public
*...* let us know if you don't want to record your statement
*...* anybody wants to introduce himself

 
### Introduction Round

*Bradley Needham:* I'm from sony, coming as an observer

*Jeff Waters:* I'm an AC rep DISA, interested in different topics from W3C. Want to learn more

*Daniel LaLiberte:* responsible for the nordic chapter of w3c. Working on IoT and Smart cities

*Alicia:* interested in working together with the WoT community

*Thomas Jaeckle:* I'm working for bosh, part of WoT WG. We are working on an open source solution compatible with WoT 1.0

*Fady Salama:* Tum researcher, working on WoT and its applications on industry

*Ding Wei:* Interested in IoT standards

*Ben Francis:* IE in the WoT WG, founder of WebThings opensource solution. Also chair of Web of Thing protocol CG.

*Geun-Hyung:* Interested in the applications of DID in IoT and WoT

*Ege Korkan:* thank you all
**...** we have other w3c groups
**...** in particular one IG
**...** and WG
**...** IG outreach and plugfests
**...** WG specification work

### Collaboration with IG and WG

*Cristiano Aguzzi:* we had a discussion on this topic quite a lot
*...* the actual discussion will take place in another deliverable
*...* we want to create a community place where everyone can join and exchange information and learn about wot
*...* we want to use CG for plugfests as well
*...* we want to reach a setup that looks like the one in slide 8

*Ege Korkan:* in the mean time we can start working on topics that we can do orthogonally to the topics of the IG
*...* we organized an Event

> Ege lists the agenda

*Kazuyuki Ashimura:* among the topics, I'd like to ask the CG to think about the relationship with IG and WG

*Ege Korkan:* it is in CG agenda

*Kazuyuki Ashimura:* you can organize events but the relationship should be a priority

*Ege Korkan:* anybody want to tell us more about what they expect about a CG around the WoT
*...* we are using the Github repository to keep track of t he issues

*Cristiano Aguzzi:* if you have any ideas on what kind of activities we should do, please go ahead

*Cristiano Aguzzi:* we can develop the CG further with curated news

*Bradley Needham:* I try to understand the relationship between the different groups
*...* I got that you would like to give people ideas how to use the WoT
*...* and teach them

*Ege Korkan:* yes

*Bradley Needham:* give people levels of architecture and examples of use cases

*Ege Korkan:* I agree
*...* CG don't write specs but the can write use cases
*...* our scope is also to give back requirements back to WG

*Kazuyuki Ashimura:* Bradley made a great point
*...* gathering expectation is good for the CG scope
*...* and understand which direction to go

*Cristiano Aguzzi:* there is also a teaching side in this
*...* we can write blog post

> *Kazuyuki Ashimura:* (btw, my main point is clarifying the expectations of the CG participants before diving into the possible solutions directly :)

*Ege Korkan:* we can ask people about their expectations
*...* in a survey

### Feedbacks

*Michael McCool:* co-chair of WoT WG
*...* working on on polishing our specification documents for the final publication
*...* next charter topics
*...* what do you want to cover in the next phase?
*...* CG can be a place where we can have open discussions
*...* to join the WG slot you are required to be invited

*Ege Korkan:* we got feedback to use DID in WoT

*Jeff Waters:* DISA member, there are many challenges in our environment
*...* I would like to provide use cases
*...* if you have a summary about the use cases you can addressing it would be helpful to be up to speed

*Michael McCool:* I can do a brief summary
*...* we have a good description of network interaction
*...* we have a gap for geolocation
*...* onboarding is something that we need to tackle
*...* smart cities depend on geolocation
*...* security is also important, especially in isolated networks
*...* also we would like to explore time series
*...* no standard way to discover devices that produced a particular set of data

*Jeff Waters:* Digital Twins, what do they mean in this context?

*Michael McCool:* you can have a shadow thing that simulate and manage the connection with the real device

*Ege Korkan:* virtual factory
*...* simulate the production line

*Michael McCool:* automation needs how the device interact with the environment
*...* this also has implications in accessibility
*...* we will look at standards for DT

*Jeff Waters:* Digital Twins are a big use case in our environment
*...* mostly for prediction

*Cristiano Aguzzi:* +1 for an event for Digital Twin only event

*Daniel LaLiberte:* I'm working with IoT and smart cities in Sweden
*...* how can you achieve climate neutrality with tech?
*...* I believe in the open data field
*...* w3c is the only one that can do it

*Ege Korkan:* smart cities are in our scope
*...* kaz is organizing an event
*...* we had small demos
*...* we are not imposing a standard, and we want to be compatible with existing standards

*Daniel LaLiberte:* if you take data, everybody is align to DCat.

> kaz Web-based Digital Twins for Smart Cities breakout

*Kazuyuki Ashimura:* I wanted to hear from you about the expectations from the WoT CG participants, but if Smart Cities and Digital Twins are part of your interested topics, I'd like to mention that I'm organizing a breakup session, see link above

*Michael McCool:* we have wot breakout too, some demos

*Michael McCool:* about DID, we support DID in TDs
*...* there are some interesting points in Verified Credentials and distributing keys
*...* that we can study in the next charter

*Kazuyuki Ashimura:* my suggestion is continuing to gather topics from the CG

*Michael McCool:* climate neutrality we didn't addressed it directly but we have use cases for energy management

[Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1jTlSKw7VfIx5J2degldyugGwJFjxPZ_p/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=106655031772979203612&rtpof=true&sd=true)

*Jeff Waters:* Good discussion. Thanks for letting me participate. I'll reach out regarding digital twin and use cases.

*Ege Korkan:* Meeting is adjourned
    
## :ballot_box_with_check: Resolutions

None

## :exclamation: Action Items

None

## :envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks

None