Meeting Minutes of 20 October 2022
===

###### tags: `Meetup`

:clapper: **Meeting Title:** Internal Meeting 2
:date: **Date:** 20 October 2022

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Geun Hyung Kim
- Michael McCool
- Mizushima Tomoaki
- Toumura Kunihiko

:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Cristiano Aguzzi

### :scroll: Agenda

- The latest updates regarding the IG collaboration
- Usage of our GitHub repository
- Regular calls: schedule, general content, video conferencing tools
- Next event ideas
- Collaboration with external organizations, EU projects, and more
- What tasks to do collaboratively

## :book: Minutes

### IG Collaboration

**Ege Korkan:** we decided to postpone the collaboration with IG

**Michael McCool:** the mail doesn't mention social media
**...** social media is not mentioned in the charter either
**...** we have to decide a policy

**Ege Korkan:** we discussed it in marketing call
**...** I can find the minutes
**...** we should discuss if it makes sense to have a new twitter account
**...** and who is behind the current account
**...** current account does not saying anything about who is managing it
**...** so if we decide that it can be used only for WG we have to change the name
**...** my proposal is to change it to a neutral channel that talks in general about WoT

**Michael McCool:** I don't care either way, however having a single account should be better
**...** we need a resolution before moving on

> Ege https://www.w3.org/2022/10/18-wot-marketing-minutes.html

### Minute Taking

**Ege Korkan:** currently we are alternating Cristiano and I
**...** first a log is generated and then it is rendered
**...** but the rendered version is not yet perfect; it needs to be reviewed
**...** than we have to send it to the w3c
**...** but the process is broken ( file links like css are not correct)
**...** asked to have a cronjob to do the publishing automatically
**...** it is not possible
**...** I worked a little bit on this
**...** we want to automate
**...** currently we store them in Github
**...** it is nice to have minutes but we are not required to do it
**...** maybe there is a better way
**...** like github wiki?
**...** not collaborative
**...** another idea is to use hackmd
**...** it is collaborative
**...** freemium model
**...** it can be linked to github, meaning that they are automatically pushed to github

**Michael McCool:** IETF is using it
**...** it is good to collect real-time input
**...** I like the system
**...** you can do non-linear editing
**...** IETRF is using the same system but it seems it is self-hosted

**Kunihiko Toumura:** Etherpad is another tool, in Japanese CG we are using HackMD
**...** but only one person can edit it and then it is published on Github

**Ege Korkan:** welcome to Guen Hyung Kim

**Geun Hyung Kim:** I work at Yumi, interested in WoT with DID

**Ege Korkan:** Were you at TPAC?

**Geun Hyung Kim:** yes

**Ege Korkan:** maybe DID can be a topic for the next event
**...** the current meeting is for internal organization
**...** and to share ideas for next events

**Ege Korkan:** if you don't use irc how can we create a queue

**Michael McCool:** you can use a special section in hackmd
**...** where people write their names

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** maybe we can have question section were people can write down also written questions

**Ege Korkan:** there is a Q&A system in teams

**Tomoaki Mizushima:** in Japanese CG we are using chat system
**...** they can use q+ to raise an hand

**Ege Korkan:** anything else?

### How to use Github Issues and Discussions

**Ege Korkan:** we would like to have a nice guideline document to explain when to use issues and discussions

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** I think we can say that for things specifically related to CG repo we should use issues, but for questions and discussion about WoT
**...** we should use discussions

**Ege Korkan:** jsonschema is a great example
**...** the meeting agenda are issues there
**...** but we have calendar

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** we can use discussions as a place to record key findings from the Meetups

**Ege Korkan:** we need categories

### Regular Calls Schedule

**Ege Korkan:** I think we should have more people to decide
**...** but just to introduce
**...** it would be nice to have this kind of meeting regular so that people know when to join
**...** meetups are not regular
**...** because they are topic based

**Michael McCool:** I suggest to have regular meetings so that people can plan their schedule accordingly not the other way around
**...** I talking about meetups
**...** and have a bunch of people on standby
**...** who can speak whenever their is the need
**...** I can volunteer
**...** biweekly is ok, weekly is too much, monthly quite slow

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** I like the idea

**Ege Korkan:** what about internal meetings ? we don't want to mix the two
**...** they will have their own schedule
**...** and then we might have too many meetings
**...** we should prioritize speaker needs so it might be a problem if they aren't free for the dedicated slot

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** we are discovering speakers while we are doing events, it is hard to organize a long schedule

**Michael McCool:** timezones are also difficult, but having a slot would improve the attendance
**...** american timezones are important
**...** also we have to decide if we want to target working hours or no-working hours

**Ege Korkan:** Geun where are you located?

**Geun Hyung Kim:**  Korea

**Michael McCool:** we can have two time slot

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** then having the meeting twice is going to be inconvenient

**Michael McCool:** I didn't mean the same meeting but to alternate between two time slots

**Ege Korkan:** we want to open to everybody the internal calls that we are having to organize events
**...** for meetups we can try two time slots

**Michael McCool:** you do an archive videos, then people can always watch after.

### Meeting Platform

**Ege Korkan:** currently siemens is hosting Teams
**...** we tried zoom from w3c
**...** but we can't have the host key for security reasons
**...** this means that we don't have control over the meeting
**...** no ban/no mute etc.
**...** it is a bit dangerous

**Michael McCool:** corporate sponsorship?
**...** also what about free systems?

**Ege Korkan:** I checked different systems

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** we started with jitsi but some people experienced problems

**Ege Korkan:** youtube live is hard to use

**Michael McCool:** what about meetup service?

**Ege Korkan:** What does Japanese CG use?

**Tomoaki Mizushima:** our call are event only and if we record a video but we use it for internal purposes... I don't have a good solution

**Ege Korkan:** what do you use during the meeting

**Tomoaki Mizushima:** we use Zoom
**...** or Webex


### Next CG Meetup Event

**Ege Korkan:** we are planning speeches from Blum about RIoT OS, Magenta Smart Home
**...** or we can have a session about next the next wot version
**...** or something DID specific

> McCool (timecheck, now 5 past the hour)

**Geun Hyung Kim:** I want to learn technical issues with IoT with DID
**...** I don't have any result yet

**Michael McCool:** it is almost a discussion, there are several use cases that we have to gather
**...** we have an initial support in discovery
**...** we can do a call for presentations

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** good idea

**Michael McCool:** we don't need long presentations

### What Tasks to do Together

**Ege Korkan:** daniel and philipp are interested in this
**...** this slide is call for contribution

**Michael McCool:** I suggest to create a list of tasks
**...** it would be easier to find people
**...** two large categories: managing and content creation
**...** find a way to give people credit is also important

**Ege Korkan:** Meeting is adjourned

## :ballot_box_with_check: Resolutions

None

## :exclamation: Action Items

None

## :envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks

None
