Meeting Minutes of 22 September 2022
===

###### tags: `Internal Meeting`

:clapper: **Meeting Title:** Internal Meeting 1
:date: **Date:** 22 September 2022

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Daniel_Peintner
- Kaz Ashimura
- Luca Barbato
- Philipp Blum
- Tomoaki Mizushima

:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Cristiano Aguzzi

### :scroll: Agenda

- Introduction and Greetings
- Introduction of New Members
- Next CG Events
- Collaboration with WoT WG and IG
  - Explaining the current roles of the W3C WoT WG and IG
  - Explaining the current problems regarding outreach in W3C WoT WG and IG
  - Discussion on what the WoT CG can do and wants to do
  - Agreeing on a date for discussion on a resolution or for a next meeting


## :book: Minutes

### Next CG Event

**Ege Korkan:** what kind of next event we would like to do?
**...** we can do one about a specific topic
**...** we can even create an event for a summary about the current wot spec
**...** or we can ask other CG members to present their own projects
**...** any other topics to discuss?

**Philipp Blum:** I can present what I was supposed to present during TPac
**...** a temperature sensor on RIOTos
**...** with another node that display information
**...** it is a showcase of opensource solutions

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** we can always present node-wot

**Philipp Blum:** focused on new features

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** right

**Philipp Blum:** we can do this once in a while

**Ege Korkan:** it makes sense

**Ege Korkan:** do you have contact with the firebase node-wot implementation
**...** ?

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** not me directly

**Daniel Peintner:** he is pretty active on github
**...** probably is from japan

**Ege Korkan:** somebody from the japanese CG knows him ?
**...** seems no

**Tomoaki Mizushima:** no sorry

**Ege Korkan:** do you have suggestion about the topic area?
**...** ok then let's move on

### Collaboration with IG

**Ege Korkan:** we want to promote a single image of the Web of Things to the public
**...** we want to have continuity between WoT groups
**...** first we have to reach an agreement
**...** then propose it to the WG and IG
**...** and finally discuss with the W3C Management
**...** in the current setup CG is not even mentioned
**...** but there are some issues
**...** like the website is under IG/WG but resources like tutorials, dev tools are not part of WG or IG work
**...** we have a maintenance issues
**...** onboard is hard
**...** can't invite people easily to provide use cases and ideas
**...** there are no modern tools for discussion and idea sharing

<ege shows the new setup relation graph>

#### Discussion

**Ege Korkan:** what is the goal of the collaboration ?

**Kazuyuki Ashimura:** remember that community groups are free to do anything they want. WG and IG are regulated under the W3C process document
**...** my suggestion is, like with the Japanese CG, to start with a simple topic
**...** it easier than starting from transferring ownership from Wg/IG website.

**Ege Korkan:** we are starting work on it
**...** but now there is the question where to host these resources
**...** should we hand over to IG website
**...** or host ourselves (causing a split in the community)

**Kazuyuki Ashimura:** current issues slide is misleading
**...** We should rather start with the discussion on what kind of activities to be done by the CG directly.
**...** it makes more sense to start over with an activity list

**Ege Korkan:** we sort of have it but we decided to focused on the collaboration first

**Kazuyuki Ashimura:** Maybe it would make sense to think about what kind of activities or categories of the work items to be done collaboratively with the WoT IG/WG like Mizushima-san described about the WoT-JP CG during the TPAC meeting, e.g., Outreach, Deployment, Use Cases and Translation..

> Mizushima> about WoT-JP CG

lu_zero: it is very difficult to get an overview of the WoT

**Ege Korkan:** ok
**...** the repository list is not clear either

**Philipp Blum:** I can mirror repositories

**Ege Korkan:** I liked kaz suggestion
**...** let's focus on this point
**...** what should we do

**Ege Korkan:** should we create task forces inside the CG?

**Kazuyuki Ashimura:** You don't have to create TFs within the CG, but you need to identify what kind of tasks to be done by the CG. If needed, you can create a dedicated TF for each task item later.

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** it might be interesting to create awesome-wot repository

**Philipp Blum:** there is already one

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** ok, another thing about activities I think one of the goal should be onboard developers

**Ege Korkan:** ok true
**...** but about activities
**...** event organization
**...** and create developer community infrastructure

**Philipp Blum:** targeting events

**Ege Korkan:** we have already a lot of ambitious goals

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** I agree, but now the next step is to decide the image to use
**...** are we CG? are we representing WoT ?

**Philipp Blum:** simple answer we can represent ourselves or our company

**Ege Korkan:** so which link should we give people

**Philipp Blum:** we can just give them two links
**...** in my previous experience
**...** we can just make it clear that is a community effort

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** we should try to have a single image

**Philipp Blum:** it would be nice
**...** but the problem is, we can't enforce it

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** I agree, but it wouldn't be better to give people the means to claim to be under the same umbrella?

**Kazuyuki Ashimura:** From my viewpoint, the policy is clear enough, so I'm not sure what is the question here. If you (as a participant in the WoT CG) would like to represent the WoT CG at some conference, you need to make a

**Philipp Blum:** so, as long as it is clear that our resources are not from the w3c wg/ig, we are fine

**Kazuyuki Ashimura:** for example, if you want to do a presentation at a conference
**...** you need to have a resolution from the CG

**Kazuyuki Ashimura:** regarding the WoT icon, it is already used
**...** and you can use it

**Ege Korkan:** I think we should

> Ege> https://github.com/w3c/wot-cg/blob/main/wot-ig-collaboration.md

> Ege> https://github.com/w3c/wot-cg/discussions/6

**Ege Korkan:** before closing I set up a github discussion to continue talking about it
**...** also Philipp Blum why do you want to use another logo?

**Philipp Blum:** The same logo give to the user the false impression to be in an official WoT webpage

**Ege Korkan:** Japanese CG use it

**Philipp Blum:** not sure

> **Kazuyuki Ashimura:** resolution by the WoT CG. On the other hand, if you (as a participant in the WoT IG/WG) would like to represent the WoT IG/WG at some conference, you need to make a resolution by the WoT IG/WG.|

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** why don't we do just a variation of the current logo?

**Philipp Blum:** ok if everybody is on the same page

> **Kazuyuki Ashimura:** resolution by the WoT CG. On the other hand, if you (as a participant in the WoT IG/WG) would like to represent the WoT IG/WG at some conference, you need to make a resolution by the WoT IG/WG.|##

**Ege Korkan:** we'll send updates for the next event

**Ege Korkan:** Meeting is adjourned
    
## :ballot_box_with_check: Resolutions

None

## :exclamation: Action Items

None

## :envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks

None
