Meeting Minutes of 02 October 2023
===

###### tags: `Internal Meeting`

:date: **Date:** 02 October 2023

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Josh Cohen
- Carl Mattocks
- Luca Barbato
- Jan Romann

### :scroll: Agenda

https://github.com/w3c/wot-cg/wiki/Meeting-Agenda#internal-meeting---02-october-2023

- TPAC Feedback and Summary
- Meeting Organization: Agendas, Structure of the Calls
- Call for What is WoT?
- CG Website Structure and Tutorial Webpage
- Home Assistant Breakout Followup and Organization
- CG and WG Collaboration: What is our process and which job is whose: https://github.com/w3c/wot-cg/pull/93


:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Ege


### TPAC Feedback and Summary

Ege Korkan: presentations are available here: https://github.com/w3c/wot-cg/tree/main/Meetings/TPAC2023

Ege Korkan: We will do a new recording of the tutorial session for YouTube publication

Cristiano Aguzzi: We expected more interaction from participants. We got more subscribers. 

Cristiano Aguzzi: There were many registrants to tutorials but not enough people showed up.

Ege Korkan: We did not get "completely new" people. 

Cristiano Aguzzi: For fever people, a simple intro works.

Josh Cohen: It was very good (for the home assistant breakout). Make it easy to contribute to the topic. I am working on an example of a "scene selector" device to have a concrete example.

Josh Cohen: WoT would be good for hobbyist devices. It would help with exposing the interface without implementing complicated specs (like matter).

### Meeting Organization: Agendas, Structure of the Calls

Carl Mattocks: The level of participation. The leaders attend most/all meetings, others will do what they can. The best is to do a summary of resolutions in the meeting, and then show when the next meeting is. This generally attracts more people. 

Carl Mattocks: if we need a decision, alternative times would be good. Also, find times when people need to participate.

Ege Korkan: maybe even asking them personally would help. We have this meeting regularly on the first Monday of the month.

Carl Mattocks: it would be better to split it into chunks. Also, addressing hobbyists would attract them.

Josh Cohen: Are you new to WoT activity?

Carl Mattocks: mostly interested in the IoT and did not attend the meetings

Josh Cohen: I can add Carl to the repository where I build the HA device.

Luca Barbato: The W3C is focused on rough consensus so we do not need voting for group decisions.

Josh Cohen: in ? we have a system with an email notification to vote.

Ege Korkan: we can send an email about decisions and ask people to respond with opinions.

#### Meeting Organization

Ege Korkan: we will have the agenda of the upcoming meeting in the wiki and then copy it over to the W3C calendar.

Luca Barbato: CG is for people outside the standardization body so that they can express their opinions. For us, it is an outreach. We can tell people that they can present their work in a meetup. 

Luca Barbato: It would be good to get the implementors since they will face the issues. Thus, an informal way to exchange ideas would be.

Carl Mattocks: "Show and Tell" is a good way to engage and show what the community is doing.

Cristiano Aguzzi: The meetups we have worked out so far, it is a variation of "Show and Tell".

Cristiano Aguzzi: I would keep these meetings for big decisions but for everything else use asynchronous channels. 

Ege Korkan: We can do such that whenever we detect a discussion with no solution, we organize an internal meeting.

Cristiano Aguzzi: we should share the agenda in advance. Also, like Luca said we are a bridge so we should focus on that, people are not interested in "decisions".

Cristiano Aguzzi: when we start doing "CG Note" kind of work, we can get more people.

### CG Call for "What is WoT?" Tutorial

Ege Korkan: the idea is to make the meeting public so that people who want to discuss that can attend

Cristiano Aguzzi: it is good.

Ege Korkan: I will send an email about that.

### CG Website Structure and Tutorial Webpage

**Note:** We can go for Netlify but it would be simpler to keep everything within GitHub. We can have an empty branch where the deployment happens. An example can be seen at https://github.com/vaimee/desmo/tree/docusaurus, which is what is mentioned in the Docusaurus guide at https://docusaurus.io/docs/deployment#deploying-to-github-pages. Netlify can be still used for build previews.

Ege Korkan: the idea is to have github pages with "https://w3c.github.io/wot-cg/tutorials/whatiswot"

Ege Korkan: Every URL before that will be empty until we create those pages. E.g. "https://w3c.github.io/wot-cg" and "https://w3c.github.io/wot-cg/tutorials" will be empty.

Cristiano Aguzzi: so it should not conflict with the CG website. It is looking good. I would publish it right away and then polish it as we go.

Carl Mattocks: one simple link is a good idea. I would not spend too much time updating the web page.

### Home Assistant Breakout Followup and Organization

**Note:** Overall organization: Maybe task forces or dedicated calls are now needed. Meetup organization, tutorial, home assistant, spec incubation, generic outreach, chair work.

Ege Korkan: It would be better to have a focused group on this. 

Josh Cohen: what is a TF in the context of W3C?

Ege Korkan: TD has a TF for example. Generally, a group of people meet regularly, with one or two moderators.

Cristiano Aguzzi: focused content on what they are interested in

Josh Cohen: Can it be a separate meeting or part of the cg meeting?

Cristiano Aguzzi: you can have your own meetings but cannot make decisions for the whole group.

Josh Cohen: should we call it a task force now?

Cristiano Aguzzi: I do not oppose to that but we need to explain what it means. 

Josh Cohen: we need to collect the ideas that people have expressed in the breakout. Each of those can be part of the things we do.

Josh Cohen: Like chartering of a task force to track what is happening.

Cristiano Aguzzi: we need to understand if people are interested in ideas or do they want to do the integration. Like Josh, do others want to build the integration code/software/plugin. Maybe some want to bridge to the HA community.

Ege Korkan: We can maybe name it "Focus Group"

Josh Cohen: W3C may have a process committee. 

Ege Korkan: We can ask Ian Jacobs about this.

Ege Korkan: Josh, can you organize this kind of work? Spreadsheet of people, organizing the ideas

Josh Cohen: Yes sure, I can do that. Maybe a co-chair as well later on to split the work.

Ege Korkan: We should be careful with collecting inputs, they should be CG members so that we can create a CG note with use cases and requirements

Josh Cohen: where should they go?

Ege Korkan: we should create a place in the repo.

> https://github.com/w3c/wot-cg/tree/main/FocusGroups/HomeAssistant

Cristiano Aguzzi: we can collect names there


### CG and WG Collaboration

Ege Korkan: we should revise the charter after the initial rebirth of the activity. Like mentioning the focus groups, use cases, bindings, etc. 

Ege Korkan: we need to understand the difference between the specification and non-normative report

Cristiano Aguzzi: maybe we took an old format of the charter?

Ege Korkan: let's check this

Ege Korkan: Maybe we can involve more the implementors side and get input from them

Cristiano Aguzzi: We would need more manpower/resources of people to do that

Jan Romann: There is a new internet paradigm called "NDN" (see https://dirk-kutscher.info/category/irtf/, https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3567445.3571106 and https://github.com/JKRhb/wot-binding-templates/pull/1). It is an academic endeavor at the moment.

Jan Romann: it is an alternative to addressing servers or IP addresses, it is the resource.

Ege Korkan: maybe it is similar to https://ipfs.tech/ ?

    
## :ballot_box_with_check: Resolutions



## :exclamation: Action Items

EK will send an email about the What is WoT? tutorial call. Doodle for finding the slot.

EK will send an email about the domain name "https://w3c.github.io/wot-cg/tutorials/whatiswot" and explain how other resources can be created in the future.

EK to ask Ian Jacobs about the naming if it is ok

We should check what needs to be changed for the charter.

## :envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks

None

