Meeting Minutes of 06 February 2023
===

###### tags: `Internal Meeting`

### info

:date: **Date:** 06 February 2023

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

<!-- This list will copied over from the meeting tool -->
- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Luca Bertelli
- Daniel Peintner

:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Ege Korkan

:computer: **Slides:** https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1RnpC2sG2r37CBkdHPqcJQ_UcEsznGdYxPFAoWv-1RC0/edit?usp=sharing 

### :scroll: Agenda

* Meetups: Feedback, Next Speakers and making it regular
* Chat Tool Discussion
* Looking at the past and future of WoT WG Charter
* Office Hours and Feedback
* WoT Implementation Events

## :book: Minutes

### Welcome

Cristiano Aguzzi: Welcome all, we will keep it brief today.

Cristiano Aguzzi: After our the new charter, we got new members.

Cristiano Aguzzi: We will update this list.

### Meetups

Cristiano Aguzzi: Meetups seem to work well, any feedback?

Daniel Peintner: I think that they are good, it would be good to make them regular.

Cristiano Aguzzi: It is difficult to make it strictly regular. We can do such that we fit 2 per month.

Ege Korkan: yes it is.

Daniel Peintner: It would be also bad if a speaker shows up but then not enough audience shows up.

Cristiano Aguzzi: we have a good list at our GitHub Discussion

Ege Korkan: I think that an audience shows up to company using WoT. And we can advertise more.

Cristiano Aguzzi: Advertising more is definitely a good idea. We can do a best effort approach.

### Chat Tool Discussion

Cristiano Aguzzi: We did a previous analysis before but they all had limitations.

Cristiano Aguzzi: Luca Barbato has recommended us Zulip which has a good free tier. We have opened an instance at wot.zulipchat.com .

Luca Bertelli: supabase is using GitHub Discussions and it works well.

Ege Korkan: It is good but we are not a codebase so to say. Also, node-wot telegram group gets discussions about wot in general so there is some demand for this.

Luca Bertelli: Zulip is not widely used so people are not used to it. 

Ege Korkan: Discord is a very good option, just that zulip has open source tools and self hosting and free upgrade possibility.

Cristiano Aguzzi: So I think we can try it and switch if it does not work.

Ege Korkan: Ok I will send an email as a resolution proposal.

### Past and Future of WoT WG Charter

Cristiano Aguzzi: We will skip this.

Ege Korkan: The charter can be looked at already. We will come back to this when there is more people.

### Office Hours and Feedback

Cristiano Aguzzi: We have started the office hours where we offer one hour per week.

Cristiano Aguzzi: It would be better to change the name to avoid name conflicts, we have some proposals such as Q&A session, chat session, coffee break.

Daniel Peintner: I think that it is clear when we use Q&A session, others can be vague

Ege Korkan: we can send it as an email.

Cristiano Aguzzi: should we keep the regular internal meetings?

Ege Korkan: I think that the group works better asynchronously but we can keep it to do some work ourselves in the worst case.

Ege Korkan: I will post it as a comment to our discussion and then put it in the email for the chat as well.

### WoT Implementation Events

Cristiano Aguzzi: we thought of organizing events centered around implementations.

Ege Korkan: I think we can postpone this discussion to when we have more people.

### Wrap up


## :ballot_box_with_check: Resolutions

None

## :exclamation: Action Items

- Mention the chat platform in a GitHub discussion and send an email about it as a resolution
- Mention changing the office hour name in the comment and put it into the same email as above
- Create events in the calendar for regular internal meetings.

## :envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks

None