Meeting Minutes of 22 September 2022
===

###### tags: `Meetup`

:clapper: **Meeting Title:** Meetup 0
:date: **Date:** 22 September 2022

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Alexander Power
- Ben Francis
- Bradley Needham
- Christian Glomb
- Andrea Saracino
- Daniel Peintner
- Dave Raggett
- Jan Romann
- Joao L Souza
- Kaz Ashimura
- Kunihiko Toumura
- Luca Barbato
- Luca Roffia
- Michael McCool
- Peter Patel Schneider
- Philipp Blum
- Sebastian Kaebisch
- Simone Persiani
- Thomas Jaeckle
- tzafeir

:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Ege Korkan

### :scroll: Agenda

- Welcome
- **Luca Barbato:** Project SIFIS Home (20 min)
  - Questions
- **Philipp Blum:** How to build a community
  - Questions & discussion
- Next CG Event Announcement
- Wrap up


## :book: Minutes

### Welcome

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** welcome everyone to our first meetup

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** I am one of the co-chairs, did phd on wot and cto of Vaimee

**Ege Korkan:** I am research scientist at Siemens in Munich
**...** welcome to our newest members as well

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** these meetups are open to the public

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** we will also have live events in the future in specific topics

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** here are the logistics information

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** slides are available at https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1u8OlKdJnq4bqRTtJ4lP2rwVph_Vl_fuvxYi2iZy9sz8/edit?usp=sharing

### wot-rust presentation

**Luca Barbato:** I did open source development, now I am doing mostly rust based implementations

**Luca Barbato:** now I am working on SIFIS-home, a trustworthy home project in the eu

**Luca Barbato:** we do not want single point of failure, like an MQTT broker
**...** we want open standards
**...** we want to guide people to write better software as well
**...** we are encouraging use of rust, it has a nice solution to memory faults
**...** the language prevents you from that
**...** a bit like java, write once, run everywhere
**...** the way wot works first our specific needs

**Luca Barbato:** we want each device to present its capabilities
**...** which is what wot does, self description
**...** there are some risks with physical device, like an oven
**...** you can forget to turn it off, which means fire hazard or electricity bill problem

**Luca Barbato:** we have done a first demo with webthings-rust
**...** but we did not want to impose our needs to others

**Luca Barbato:** So we have started developing our own stack

**Luca Barbato:** we have some rust crates already
**...** we have done the network discovery side of the wot discovery spec
**...** we also have a wot-td crate that allows writing TDs in rust, in a type safe way
**...** so you can build it in a structured but flexible way
**...** the validation happens in compile time
**...** (should be moved up) sifis home is at https://www.sifis-home.eu/ with the github repository https://github.com/sifis-home

**Luca Barbato:** we like the flexibility of TDs

#### wot-serve

**Luca Barbato:** it is an extension of wot-td
**...** you can build the rules
**...** it also does the mdns advertisement
**...** this is in the same level as webthings rust but we did it in another way

#### wot-discovery

**Luca Barbato:** what we are doing now is very much WIP
**...** we do not want to implement sparql ourselves since it is quite complex

#### What is Next

**Luca Barbato:** we will implement a consumer as well

#### questions

**Sebastian Kaebisch:** we would like to invite you to a plugfest, we can check interoperability

**Luca Barbato:** yes please

**Kazuyuki Ashimura:** I am WoT team contact
**...** I completely agree to invite you to plugfest
**...** I think you should present it in a WG call as well, we can invite you
**...** in addition, your implementation has a new code base so it would help a lot with the implementation report

**Michael McCool:** this is great.
**...** are you using Thing Models?
**...** since you are building TDs programmatically, maybe you can use TMs as templates?

**Luca Barbato:** sifis has stereotypes, and restrictive
**...** this is 2 months of work and we are open for interop testing

**Michael McCool:** helping with the discovery testing would be really nice

**Ben Francis:** do you have plans to implement wot profile?
**...** when you implement the consumer, which protocols do you plan to support?

**Luca Barbato:** we are planning to support HTTP SSE
**...** we will explore other protocols later but for now HTTP
**...** maybe CoAP in the future, but in the very future
**...** for HTTP, axiom gave us the building blocks
**...** for CoAP, more work is needed
**...** for MQTT, we have philosophical problem since the broker is a single point of failure

### Philipp Blum's Presentation

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** he contributes to the WG and has experience in other fields as well

**Philipp Blum:** thanks for reviving the group

**Philipp Blum:** did blogs, youtube videos and tv commercials
**...** fell in love with constrained devices when working with big data devices
**...** lack of infrastructure was the main interesting point for me
**...** we want to have tools for collaboration
**...** we need more validation and verification infrastructure
**...** and place to give support to the community
**...** so I have a domain that can support different services
**...** there is RAM and Storage servers
**...** we have data safety in 4 levels

**Philipp Blum:** we have done an initial kubernetes setup with CI CD
**...** it would be nice to have a single user management system and chat services
demo

**Philipp Blum:** we have discourse running as well, not sure about signing up service

#### Questions

**Ege Korkan:** what about the future? how to maintain it after one year?

**Philipp Blum:** we have 3 people working on it
**...** but we need to scale it down a bit later on

**Ege Korkan:** 1 year from now?

**Philipp Blum:** I have started 2 months ago

**Ben Francis:** I would be cautious with supporting a community

**Ben Francis:** why did you decide to self host it?

**Philipp Blum:** it is complicated for the end user, from my experience in admin roles in discord servers
**...** we cannot send people 50 different links for different aspects

**Ege Korkan:** we can have a focused discussion on this

### Video Platform Choice

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** we have this list of available platforms

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** we can also use different platforms for different purposes

**Philipp Blum:** (from the chat) teams is good for now

**Thomas Jaeckle:** (from the chat) teams is great

> cris https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/wot/calendar

**Kazuyuki Ashimura:** please talk with the whole CG about what should be done as a starting point

**Ege Korkan:** Meeting is adjourned
    
## :ballot_box_with_check: Resolutions

None

## :exclamation: Action Items

None

## :envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks

None