Meeting Minutes of 25 July 2022
===

###### tags: `Kickoff` 

:clapper: **Meeting Title:** Kickoff
:date: **Date:** 25 July 2022

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Daniel Peintner
- Dogan Fennibay
- Gregoria Monari 
- Junde Yhi
- Kaz Ashimura
- Luca Roffia
- Michael McCool
- Philipp Blum
- Salvatore Cataldi
- Sebastian Kaebisch
- Tomoaki Mizushima

:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Ege Korkan

### :scroll: Agenda

- Greetings
- Short introduction round
- Presentation of the old state of the CG
- Presentation of the new charter
- Feedbacks
- Next Work Items



## :book: Minutes

### Greetings and Logistics

 **Cristiano Aguzzi:** you can fill the questionnaire at https://forms.gle/FkHGF2hRwf8e49Qj6 in order to give us a feedback

 **Cristiano Aguzzi:** I will be back in a minute to give some time
 
### Introduction Round

 **Cristiano Aguzzi:** I am co-founder of Vaimee

 **Luca Roffia:** I remember the plugfest from dusseldorf airport

 **Luca Roffia:** I believe in the impact of WoT

 **Philipp Blum:** I work in my own company, I used to be in crypto organization

 **...** I am interested in constrained devices, RIOT OS based

 **...** we have a running implementation

 **...** I came to know WoT while I was tinkering with Arduino, did not want to use custom protocols

 **Michael McCool:** I am co chair of WoT WG

 **...** also involved in robotics and edge, other than IoT

 **Sebastian Kaebisch:** Here is Sebastian. I am co-chair of WoT WG with Michael

 **...** I am very happy that this group is reactivated, outside of the standardization work for the community to meet

 **...** looking forward for new activities here

 **Dogan Fennibay:** I am from Siemens, from smart infrastructure. I am interested in a non fragmented way to do IoT

 **Daniel Peintner:** I am from Siemens. I am active in working group. I am looking forward to see the community grow

 **...** it was lacking before

 **Gregorio Monari:** I am from Vaimee. I am here to learn more WoT, happy to be with the beautiful people here

 **Kazuyuki Ashimura:** I am from W3C. Team contact for the WG and IG. I am an observer today

 **Tomoaki Mizushima:** I am Tomoaki Mizushima. From Internet Research Institute. I am co-editor of profile and use cases. Also co-chair of WoT Japanese CG

 **...** we talked about WoT with japanese


### Draft CG Charter

[Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Fa9tSp_xSOtJnKN2AV5qcJf7JUCNHO9D/edit?usp=sharing&amp;ouid=106655031772979203612&amp;rtpof=true&amp;sd=true)

[Rendered Charter](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://raw.githubusercontent.com/w3c/charter-drafts/859914558bad9052cd33d42c5418be9516d6ed29/2022/wot-cg-2022.html)

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** the idea behind externalizing the documents, is to make it easier to maintain them

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** we have updated the image to reflect how to arrange the collaboration in the future

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** we can give feedback to the WG, like how something is difficult to implement

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** we will try to reach out to other CGs in the W3C

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** it might be easier to let others join plugfest like events

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** we want to support newcomers

### Feedbacks

**Kazuyuki Ashimura:** given this proposed diagram, we need to clarify the relationship among the three groups: WoT IG, WoT WG and WoT CG
**...** also my question is: do we still need the WoT IG if the WoT CG can handle most of the IG work

**Michael McCool:** we can let the CG work and decide later to revise IG
**...** and see how a venue fits or not

**Sebastian Kaebisch:** we should leave IG mainly for collaboration between the IG and other SDOs

**Philipp Blum:** I like McCool's suggestion. we should resolve conflicts

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** we can be the first contact for other SDOs and then direct them to IG
**...** we do not compete with WoT IG or WG
**...** outreach is a horizontal activity

**Kazuyuki Ashimura:** once cg clarifies the scope, we should talk with CG contact and project team contact from W3C
**...** w3c management as well
**...** ig and wg activity is defined by the process document, CG is not
**...** so we need to talk with this proposal with the W3C Team as well

**Ege Korkan:** we have it as a next work item

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** we also want to organize some meeting in TPAC as well

**Kazuyuki Ashimura:** in that case, maybe you're a bit late. there was a specific procedure for Chairs (including CG Chairs) to ask the Event Team to allocate a meeting during TPAC

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** we want to organize monthly events after TPAC
**...** and publish polished versions of the minutes for others to digest

**Ege Korkan:** CG work restarts after TPAC

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** you can open issues and send emails

**Philipp Blum:** I would like to present something in regards of a chat solution etc. next meeting

**Cristiano Aguzzi:** I propose to adjourn the call. Thank you all for attending!

**Ege Korkan:** Thank you all, see you in the next meeting

## :ballot_box_with_check: Resolutions

None

## :exclamation: Action Items

- Contact TPAC Team for getting a slot in TPAC

## :envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks

None
