# Meeting Minutes

## Information

:date: **Date:** 28 October 2024

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Michael Mccool
- Ondrej Tomcik
- Denis Ioan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Michael Koster
- Christian Frey
- HiveOT
- Kunihiko Toumura
- Michael Hofmann
- Peter Suchomel
- Rohit Patil
- Mikinobu
- Lorenzo Gigli
- Ted Thibodeau
- Ruben (Unverified)
- Flavia De Andrade Pereira
- Pedram Hadjian
- Matthias Meier
- Felix Paulini
- Tatiana Mangels
- Christian Winkler
- Nils Zehnbauer
- York Schmidtke
- Tobias Roettcher
- Felix Otto
- Mahda Noura
- Andreas Hennig

### :scroll: Agenda

:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Ege

:computer: <https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1VixI7ySscHwSAILhx-7cw3nohhnLHSqCxFoCJLJTLzU/edit?usp=sharing>
----

## Minutes

### Introduction

Cris: Welcome to the 20th meetup!

### News

Cris: Join our meetup and officer hours on Thursdays.
Cris: We have the WoT week during the 25-29. If you want to have a talk please contact us and we can arrange a new event.

### WoT week in Munich

Cris: it will have a Plug Fest event to play with different devices and test interoperability between them. Full week event but the last two days will be only for standardization activities.

### Meetup Presentation

Cris: Ondrej is a tech lead at Siemens SI.

Ondrej: Siemens is a huge company. You can find Siemens devices anywhere. There are multiple projects within Siemens who use WoT.

Ondrej: Multiple domains are addressed. Almost 20bn revenue and a lot of people. But also a lot of devices are in question.

Ondrej: Protection, building automation and electrification.

Ondrej: Electrification case, Customers are increasingly want to bring devices to the cloud.

Ondrej: How do we connect all those different devices to differently northbound systems.

Ondrej: Even within Siemens, there are multiple protocols as there are different regulations.

Ondrej: We want to bring the customer as quickly to  connectivity as possible.

Ondrej: There are multiple issues in this goal.

Ondrej: Developers do not want to understand those protocols. Also we want to make sure that connectivity a commodity.

Ondrej: In case of EP devices, a database has all the documentation about the API. That way, you can get pdf and configuration files.

Ondrej: We use a TM catalogue, built from the database. This simplifies the provisioning process of the customers.

Ondrej: Now you see the UI running on the edge device. We are using the TD defined by the development team.

Ondrej: In some cases, you want to import the TD since the customer has the exact setup all the time.

Ondrej: The other one is a catalog. We use an OSS component.

Ondrej: I can look for a manufacturer. Here, I need to instantiate the TD from its TM.

Ondrej: Like this, I have onboarded the device. We can also edit the TD in a visual editor.

Ondrej: This way, we can bring any device with any protocol to a single application. That is it!

### Questions

Henk: Do you distribute the TDs?

Ondrej: No only the TMs are in the catalog?

Peter: Is it successor of Connect Hub?

Ondrej: We are working on bringing them together.

Christian F.: How is this aligned with AAS from IDTA?

Ondrej: It is managed through Felix but he is working on it.

Pedram: The shells has several submodels for different aspects, like CO2 footprint. You can convert an AAS AID to a TD and vice versa. I have pasted a link that you can use to convert them.

McCool: We debated on working on Thing Models for a directory.

Ondrej: Yes! The github repo contains that as a first version.

Pedram: Yes that would help.

McCool: You probably want to look into multiple repositories

Pedram: AAS has a concept for federation. That would be nice to look into. Also we had to reinvent the id concept in TMs once again since the standard is open on that front.

McCool:  You are right that we need different id for TM and TDs.

Pedram: We only looked into implementing for our own use case. It would be nice to think of standardized approaches that works for multiple use cases.

McCool: JSON-LD canonicalization is good but needs RDF processing and not many implementations available.

Henk: Do you use a standardized vocabulary in your catalog or is it up to the device?

Pedram: Many groups were using TDs or similar stuff already in Siemens. We only have 3 required fields like manufacturer, semantic version and who owns it. This way the catalog is as open as possible.

Pedram: If you do that, it will not be across industries. Also, we can only do structured text search etc. for now...

McCool: We did not want to mandate a search mechanism. With JSONPath standardized now, we can mandate that but it is still not mandating an ontology.

Pedram: We do not know how to find a TD that supports protocols. Some devices can support multiple protocols or can get new.

Michael Hofmann: We need unique id in DPP. There it says that the id should be based on the serial number. It should be globally unique etc. Is it the same id you need in your environment?

Cris: The id now is the id of the document but we should have another field for the device id.

Pedram: We even use TM for domain concepts, to normalize. We cannot get the protocol supported from just the id.

Cris: How are the property values retrieved?

Ondrej: There is a preview button that fetches them from the device.

Cris: Do you have guidance/regulation on naming properties?

Ondrej: The engineers are trained to use those names. They come from PDFs etc.

Pedram: Property names come from C code actually, in a way. That is why they cannot contain funny characters. One offering we have has french names that could not be in the TD. We are working on a standardized vocabulary names in a set of products.

Pedram: for example, we have some standardized names like active energy import, which do not depend on the thing itself. That way you can aggregate for average etc.

Pedram: We do not have unique id for properties, which is annoying.

Cris: Anything you find missing from TMs?

Pedram: We have a property object. A value with a timestamp. It is a moving average. We cannot model that.

Cris: It is done in node-wot but it is not documented.

Matthias: I need to represent a struct, basically.

Cris: Anything for the modeling mechanism of TMs?

Pedram: Is there a difference between model, type and instance. Relationship to DTDL usage of these terms is confusing... The type and class relationship.

Cris: Here is the example we have for data mapping in node-wot.

## :envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks

- Finding the supported protocols in a TD is not easy at the moment.
